# GenZ Mental Health Survey Simulator
==============================

A survey simulator for Gen Z mental health research, generating realistic demographic information, digital device usage, and mental health resources.

## Features
--------

* Simulates survey responses for a fictional survey
* Includes realistic demographic information, digital device usage, and mental health resources
* Generates diverse and sophisticated suggestions to open ended question for improving mental health support for Gen Z

## Requirements
------------

- Python 3.x
- `pandas` library
- `numpy` library

## Installation
------------

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/rajaththomson/GenZ-Mental-Health-Survey-Simulator.git
    ```

2. Navigate to the cloned repository:
    ```bash
    cd GenZ-Mental-Health-Survey-Simulator
    ```

3. Install dependencies:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Usage
------------

1. Run the script:
    ```bash
    python genz_mental_health_survey_simulator.py
    ```

2. The script will simulate survey responses and save them to a CSV file named `genz_mental_health_survey.csv`.

3. The simulated survey responses CSV file can be found in the `data` folder:
    ```markdown
    data/survey_responses.csv
    ```
## Data Description
------------

The CSV file (`survey_responses.csv`) contains 4000 synthetic survey responses generated by the survey simulator. The data includes:
- **Demographic Information:** Age, gender, occupation.
- **Digital Device Usage:** Average hours per day, activities, night usage, perception of time spent.
- **Mental Health and Well-Being:** Stress levels, depression symptoms, comfort discussing mental health, device usage impact.
- **Physical Activity and Sleep:** Frequency of physical activities, sleep quality, nutrition and diet.
- **Access to Mental Health Resources:** Awareness and usage of mental health resources.
- **Preferences for Mental Health Support:** Preferred modes of support, openness to AI-powered chatbots, helpful features in chatbots, suggestions for improving mental health support.

## Contributing
------------

Contributions welcome! Please submit a pull request with your changes.
